### Response to Object Model

1. I have fixed this issue to guarantee the consistency in my implementation as well as in my new design documents.
2. I have created a new class `Meeple` to represent this concept.
3. Same as 2.
4. At this first beginning I want to `String` to represent the "relative position" of a tile. But now in my current implementation I use array of Integer instead, as it has lower representational gap.
5. Added this in the new documents.
6. I have created a new class called `FeatureChecker`, which is responsible for checking completed features, storing scored features, and updating scores for players during the game.
7. The benefit of polymorphism are: 
    1. Each subclass may have different implementation of `rotateSeg()`. For example, the position of a `Monastery` is not changed even if it is rotated, while for `CitySeg` and `RoadSeg` things are different.
    2. With polymorphism, a tile can conveniently store all its segments without knowing their correct types. For example, it could have a `List` or `Set` of `Segment`.
    3. Codes that compute the completed features can be reused. In `FeatureChecker`, we have a single function to check both completed cities and completed roads, and the function does not need to know the exact type of each segment.
8. In my new documents, there is a method `updateScore()` in `CarcassonnesGame` to initialize the feature completion checking and scoring. In function `isGameOver`, we also initialize these operation by when the game is indeed over.
9. Mentioned in 7.